# React components

- Core of components
- `.jsx` JavaScript XML
- Import and export

Components are one of the core concepts of React. React lets you combine your markup, CSS, and JavaScript into custom “components”, reusable UI elements for your app.

Traditionally when creating web pages, web developers marked up their content and then added interaction by sprinkling on some JavaScript. This worked great when interaction was a nice-to-have on the web. Now it is expected for many sites and all apps. React puts interactivity first while still using the same technology: a React component is a JavaScript function that you can sprinkle with markup. Also a component names must start with a capital letter or they won’t work!

React components are regular JavaScript functions except:

- Their names always begin with a capital letter.
- They return JSX markup.

As a Components are regular JavaScript functions, so you can keep multiple components in the same file. This is convenient when components are relatively small or tightly related to each other.

Components can render other components, but you must never nest their definitions.

## Root component

React application begins at a “root” component. Usually, it is created automatically when you start a new project with `create-react-app` or `vite@create-lates`.

Most React apps use components all the way down. This means that you won’t only use components for reusable pieces like buttons, but also for larger pieces like sidebars, lists, and ultimately, complete pages! Components are a handy way to organize UI code and markup, even if some of them are only used once.

React-based frameworks take this a step further. Instead of using an empty HTML file and letting React “take over” managing the page with JavaScript, they also generate the HTML automatically from your React components. This allows your app to show some content before the JavaScript code loads.

Still, many websites only use React to add interactivity to existing HTML pages. They have many root components instead of a single one for the entire page. You can use as much—or as little—React as you need.

## Modularizing Component

The magic of components lies in their reusability: you can create components that are composed of other components. But as you nest more and more components, it often makes sense to start splitting them into different files.
