# How it works?

## References

-Medium article by Ruchi Vora: <https://medium.com/@ruchivora16/react-how-react-works-under-the-hood-9b621ee69fb5>
-`freecodecamp` article by Mehul Mohan: <https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/react-under-the-hood/>

In traditional way web browsers utilize the DOM tree to represent and manipulate HTML documents. which enables easy identification and positioning of elements within th browser's display. However, modifying or making changes to DOM element is a resource intensive and time-consuming process. When a DOM element is altered, the browser has to recalculate the element's size and position, as well as repaint the screen.

This is where the Virtual DOM comes into play. It functions as an efficient alternative for updating the dom on response to changes, significantly reducing the time required. The Virtual DOM is a JavaScript object representation of the actual DOM. Consider the HTML code snippet below is the corresponding Javascript object representation.

- `html` version

  ```html
    <html>
        <head>
            <title>This is title</title>
        </head>
        <body>
            <h1>This is a header</h1>
            <p> This is a paragraph</p>
        </body>
    </html>
  ```

- `JSON` version

   ```js
   const domTree = {
    tagName: 'html',
    attributes: {},
    children: [
      {
        tagName: 'heading',
        attributes: {},
        children: [
            {
                tagName: 'title',
                attributes: {},
                children: ['This is title']
            }
        ]
      },
      {
        tagName: 'body',
        attributes: {},
        children: [
            {
                tagName: 'h1',
                attributes: {},
                children: ['This is header']
            },
            {
                tagName: 'p',
                attributes: {},
                children: ['This is paragraph']
            }
        ]
      }
    ],
   } 
   ```

React generates the javaScript object of the HTML to be precise JSX with the help of `React.createElement()`. Updating a virtual DOM is much faster and efficient than the actual DOM, as updating a virtual DOM does not require heavy web browser processing like  painting and recalibrating the space. It involves updating the javascript object directly. React further enhances and streamlines the process of updating the DOM with the help of reconciliation. Updating a virtual DOM is much  faster and efficient than the actual DOM, as updating a virtual DOM does not require heavy web browser processing like painting and recalibrating the space. It involves updating the JavaScript object directly. React further enhances and streamlines the process of updating the DOM with the help of reconciliation.

## JSX

JSX is a JavaScript Extension Syntax that React uses to combine HTML and JavaScript easily. It's usually referred as a syntactic sugar. Developers employ code transpilers such as babel to translate the JSX code to the Javascript Syntax.

### Example

```html
<div>
  <p>React is awesome</p>
</div>
```

```js
// createElement(tagName, attributes, prop)
React.createElement("div", {}, React.createElement("p", {}, "React is awesome"));
```

### `createElement(type, props, ...children)`

reference: <https://react.dev/reference/react/createElement>

## Reconciliation

Reconciliation is a key feature of React that efficiently updates the DOM by only making necessary changes. Although its a complex process, but here are the basic steps that it follows.

### The reconciliation process involves the following key steps

1. React creates a virtual DOM, which is the lightweight copy of the real DOM in the object
2. With every change in the component state or props, React creates a new virtual DOM.
3. React uses diffing algorithm which traverses the tree to compare/analyze the changes between the new virtual DOM and the previous one.
4. The above steps helps to determine which component needs to be re-rendered on the real DOM.
5. Finally, the changes are made to actual/real DOM.

Diffing algorithm ensures that the minimum changes are to be made on the actual/real DOM. Despite multiple state changes, due to the reconciliation process, the real DOM is updated only once, ensuring efficient rendering and a smooth user experience.

## Diffing Algorithm

Diffing algorithm is the heart of the reconciliation process which contributes to the efficiency and speed. The algorithm is very complex but it focuses on these key points.

### 1.Elements of Different

When the root elements of the Virtual DOM trees have different types, React’s diffing algorithm discards the entire old DOM tree and constructs a new one from scratch.

### 2. DOM Elements of the same type

### 3. Component Elements of the same type

### 4. Recursing on children

## Types of reconciliation algorithms
