# `react` package

The react package contains only the functionality necessary to define React components. It is typically used together with a React renderer like react-dom for the web, or react-native for the native environments.

## How it works?

In traditional way web browsers utilize the DOM tree to represent and manipulate HTML documents. which enables easy identification and positioning of elements within th browser's display. However, modifying or making changes to DOM element is a resource intensive and time-consuming process. When a DOM element is altered, the browser has to recalculate the element's size and position, as well as repaint the screen.

This is where the Virtual DOM comes into play. It functions as an efficient alternative for updating the dom on response to changes, significantly reducing the time required. The Virtual DOM is a JavaScript object representation of the actual DOM. Consider the HTML code snippet below is the corresponding Javascript object representation.

- `html` version

  ```html
    <html>
        <head>
            <title>This is title</title>
        </head>
        <body>
            <h1>This is a header</h1>
            <p> This is a paragraph</p>
        </body>
    </html>
  ```

- `JSON` version

   ```js
   const domTree = {
    tagName: 'html',
    attributes: {},
    children: [
      {
        tagName: 'heading',
        attributes: {},
        children: [
            {
                tagName: 'title',
                attributes: {},
                children: ['This is title']
            }
        ]
      },
      {
        tagName: 'body',
        attributes: {},
        children: [
            {
                tagName: 'h1',
                attributes: {},
                children: ['This is header']
            },
            {
                tagName: 'p',
                attributes: {},
                children: ['This is paragraph']
            }
        ]
      }
    ],
   } 
   ```

React generates teh javaScript object of the HTML to be precise JSX with the help of `React.createElement()`. Updating a virtual DOM is much faster and efficient than the actual DOM,. as updating a virtual DOM does not require heavy web browser processing like  painting and recalibrating the space. It involves updating the javascript object directly. React further enhances and streamlines the process of updating the DOM with the help of reconciliation.
