# VirtualDOM

In traditional web browsers, the DOM tree is used to represent and manipulate HTML documents, which facilitates easy identification and positioning of elements. However, modifying DOM elements is resource-intensive and time-consuming. Changes require the browser to recalculate element sizes and positions and repaint the screen.

The Virtual DOM offers an efficient alternative for updating the DOM in response to changes, significantly reducing the time required. It is a JavaScript object representation of the actual DOM.

## Virtual DOM example

- HTML example

    ```html
    <html>
        <head>
            <title>This is title</title>
        </head>
        <body>
            <h1>This is a header</h1>
            <p>This is a paragraph</p>
        </body>
    </html>
    ```

- React VirtualDOM example

    ```js
    const domTree = {
    tagName: 'html',
    attributes: {},
    children: [
        {
        tagName: 'head',
        attributes: {},
        children: [
            {
            tagName: 'title',
            attributes: {},
            children: ['This is title']
            }
        ]
        },
        {
        tagName: 'body',
        attributes: {},
        children: [
            {
            tagName: 'h1',
            attributes: {},
            children: ['This is a header']
            },
            {
            tagName: 'p',
            attributes: {},
            children: ['This is a paragraph']
            }
        ]
        }
    ],
    }
    ```

React uses `React.createElement()` to generate a JavaScript object (JSX) representing the HTML. This process, along with the reconciliation strategy, allows React to update the DOM more efficiently by working with JavaScript objects rather than directly manipulating the DOM.

It's important to understand that virtual DOM isn't a feature. It's a means to an end, the end being declarative, state-driven UI development. Virtual DOM is valuable because it allows you to build apps without thinking about state transitions, with performance that is generally good enough. That means less buggy code, and more time spent on creative tasks instead of tedious ones.
