# `createStore(reducer, preloadedState?, enhancer?)`

`createStore()` function is deprecated in Redux library.

`createStore()` function is used to create a Redux store that holds the complete state tree of your application. The store is an object that brings together the state, reducers, and actions.

1. Purpose of createStore: The primary role of createStore is to create the Redux store. The store is where the entire state of your application lives. This function sets up the store with its reducers, initial state, and allows for middleware integration.

2. Reducers: Reducers are functions that take the current state and an action, and return a new state(Must be new object). They define how the state changes in response to actions sent to the store. createStore requires a reducer as its essential argument since the reducer dictates how the state is updated and managed.

3.Initial State: You can optionally pass an initial state to createStore. This is useful for server-side rendering, hydrating a store with some existing data, or rehydrating a store from a previous session.

4.Middleware: Redux middleware provides a third-party extension point between dispatching an action, and the moment it reaches the reducer. You can use middleware for logging, crash reporting, asynchronous handling, etc. createStore can be enhanced with middleware using applyMiddleware.

5.Creating the Store: When you create the store, you typically provide the root reducer (possibly combined using combineReducers), an initial state, and any middleware.

6.Store Methods: The store created by createStore has a few important methods:

    - `getState()`: Returns the current state tree of your application.
    - `dispatch(action)`: Dispatches an action. This is the only way to trigger a state change.
    - `subscribe(listener)`: Adds a change listener. It will be called any time an action is dispatched.
    - `replaceReducer(nextReducer)`: Replaces the reducer currently used by the store with a new reducer.

## Memento

1.Return a New State Object: Reducers must always return a new state object, and not modify the existing state. In Redux, the state should be treated as immutable. Modifying the existing state directly can lead to unexpected behavior and bugs.

2.Handle Actions Appropriately: The reducer should check the action's type and decide how to compute the new state based on that type. Typically, this is done using a switch statement or a similar construct. Each case in the switch should handle a different action type.

3.Spread Operator for Object Updates: When updating properties of the state object, it's common to use the spread operator (...) to create a new object with the existing state's properties, and then overwrite the specific properties that need to be changed. This ensures immutability.

4.Default Case to Return Current State: Always include a default case in your reducer's switch statement. In this case, simply return the current state. This is important because the reducer will receive all actions, and you want to make sure that it correctly handles any actions it's not specifically designed for.

5.Initial State Must Be Defined: Reducers should define an initial state. This state is used when the store is created and before any actions are dispatched.

6.Keep Reducers Pure: Reducers should be pure functions. They should not produce side effects, such as API calls or routing transitions, and they should not call non-pure functions, like Date.now() or Math.random().

## Usage

`createStore()` function has a one required argument `reducer(state, action)` and 2 other optional argument.

- `reducer: function`:
- `preloadedState: any`: The inital state.

A function returns an object that holds the complete state of your app. The only way to change its state is by dispatching actions. You may also subscribe to the changes to its state to update the UI.

### Returns

The function returns object contains a state.

```javascript
return {
  dispatch: [Function: dispatch],
  subscribe: [Function: subscribe],
  getState: [Function: getState],
  replaceReducer: [Function: replaceReducer],
  '@@observable': [Function: observable]
}
```

## Example

```javascript
const initialState = { value: 0 };

const reducer = (state = initialState, action) => {
  switch (action) {
    case "ADD":
      return state + 1;
  }
};

const store = createStore(reducer);
```
