# `combineReducers(reducers)`

The `combineReducers` helper function turns an object whose values are different "slice reducer" functions into a single combined reducer function you can pass to Redux Toolkit's configureStore (or the legacy createStore method). The `combineReducers` function in Redux is a utility that helps manage a large Redux state by structuring it in a more manageable way. In Redux, the entire state of your application is stored in a single state object within the Redux store. As your application grows, this state object can become quite complex. `combineReducers` enables you to split your state into separate slices, each managed by their own reducer, and then combine these reducers into a single root reducer.

In detail:

1. **Splitting the state**: In a complex application, different parts of the state might be responsible for different pieces of data. For instance, you might have a part of your state for user authentication, another part for a list of items, and yet another for some form data. Each of these parts can be managed by a separate reducer function.
2. **Separate Reducers for each slice of state**: A reducer is a function that takes the current state and an action, and returns the new state. With `combineReducers` , you write separate reducer functions for each slice of your state. Each reducer manages its own part of the state and is responsible only for handling actions related to that part.
3. **Combining Reducers**: Once you have separate reducers for each part of your state, you use `combineReducers` to create a single root reducer. This root reducer is what you pass to the Redux createStore function. Internally, `combineReducers` creates a new reducer function that calls every child reducer, and gathers their results into a single state object. The shape of this state object matches the keys of the passed reducers.
4. **How it works internally**: When an action is dispatched, the root reducer produced by `combineReducers` calls each child reducer with its slice of the state and the action. Each child reducer handles the action if it's relevant to its slice of the state; otherwise, it returns the current state. After all reducers have been called, the new state is assembled and returned as a single object.
5. **Maintaining Encapsulation**: `combineReducers` encourages good Redux practice by keeping each reducer's state slice separate and manageable. Reducers are not aware of the entire state structure, which makes them more predictable and easier to maintain.

## Usage

### Arguments

The function takes only 1 argument which is a `reducers: Object`, an object whose lavues correspond to different reducer functions that need to be combined into one.

```javascript
combineReducers({
  posts: postsReducer,
  comments: commentsReducer,
});
```

### Returns

(Function): A reducer that invokes every reducer inside the reducers object, and constructs a state object with the same shape.

## Example

Lets imagine we have 2 types of object list in our state.

```javascript
const initialState = {
  user: [
    { id: 1, name: "Dash" },
    { id: 2, name: "Eric" },
  ],
  tasks: [
    { title: "File the TPS reports" },
    { title: "Order more pizza" },
    { title: "Some other change" },
  ],
};

const ADD_USER = "ADD_USER";
const ADD_TASK = "ADD_TASK";

const addUser = (name) => ({ type: ADD_USER, payload: name });
const addTask = (title) => ({ type: ADD_TASK, payload: { title } });
```

In a typical way the reducer function would look like this

```javascript
const reducer = (state = initialState, action) => {
  if (action.type === ADD_USER) {
    return {
      ...state,
      users: [...state.user, { id: 3, name: action.payload.name }],
    };
  }

  if (action.type === ADD_TASK) {
    return {
      ...state,
      jobs: [...state.jobs, action.payload],
    };
  }
};
```

But when the operations on each user, and task grows it would be much more difficult to manage the state. So we can divide the recuders into 2 parts.

```javascript
const userReducer = (state = initialState.user, action) => {
  if (action.type === ADD_USER) {
    return [...state, { id: 3, name: action.payload.name }];
  }
  return state;
};

const taskRerucer = (state = initialState.tasks, action) => {
  if (action.type === ADD_TASK) {
    return [...state.jobs, action.payload];
  }
  return state;
};

const reducer = combineReducers({ users: userReducer, tasks: taskRerucer });
```
