# `applyMiddleware(...middleware)`

`applyMiddleware()` is a function in Redux that enhances the store with middleware capabilities. Middleware in Redux is a way to extend Redux with additional functionality. It provides a third-party extension point between dispatching an action and the moment it reaches the reducer. Middleware is commonly used for logging, crash reporting, performing asynchronous tasks, and more.

Middleware only wraps the store's dispatch function. Technically, anything a middleware can do, you can do manually by wrapping every dispatch call, but it's easier to manage this in a single place and define action transformations on the scale of the whole project

## Detailed Overview

1.**Purpose of apllyMiddleware**: The primary role of `applyMiddleware()` is to enable the Redux store to handle more complex scenarios, like asynchronous actions, by wrapping the store's `dispatch` function. This is crucial for operations that go beyond simple state updates.

2.**How middlware works**: Middleware in Redux are functions that get executed in the order they are provided to `applyMiddleware()` when an action is dispatched. Each middleware has access to the store's dispatch and getState methods, as well as the next middleware in the chain. This structure allows each middleware to do some work, then pass the action on to the next middleware, and so on, until the reducers ultimately handle the action.

3.**Using applyMiddleware**: To use middleware, you pass them as arguments to `applyMiddleware()` which then returns an enhancer. This enhancer is then provided to the createStore function.

4.**Common middlwares**: : There are many popular middleware for Redux. For example:

    - **Redux Thunk**: Enables writing functions with logic inside that can interact with the Redux store's dispatch and getState.
    - **Redux Saga**: Used for handling side effects like data fetching, asynchronous tasks, and more complex synchronous operations.
    - **Redux Logger** Logs every action and the next state to the console, useful for debugging.

## Usage

### Arguments

- `middleware`: Functions that conform to the Redux middleware API. Each middleware receives Store's `dispatch` and getState functions as named arguments, and returns a function. . That function will be given the `next` middleware's `dispatch` method, and is expected to return a function of action calling next(action) with a potentially different argument, or at a different time, or maybe not calling it at all. The last middleware in the chain will receive the real store's `dispatch` method as the next parameter, thus ending the chain. So, the middleware signature is `({ getState, dispatch }) => next => action.`

### Returns

- (Function) A store enhancer that applies the given middleware. The store enhancer signature is `createStore => createStore` but the easiest way to apply it is to pass it to `createStore()` as the last enhancer argument.

## Example

```javascript
import { createStore, applyMiddleware } from "redux";
import todos from "./reducers";

function logger({ getState }) {
  return (next) => (action) => {
    console.log("will dispatch", action);

    // Call the next dispatch method in the middleware chain.
    const returnValue = next(action);

    console.log("state after dispatch", getState());

    // This will likely be the action itself, unless
    // a middleware further in chain changed it.
    return returnValue;
  };
}

const store = createStore(todos, ["Use Redux"], applyMiddleware(logger));

store.dispatch({
  type: "ADD_TODO",
  text: "Understand the middleware",
});
```
