# `bindActionCreators(actionCreators, dispatch)`

This utility function is used to automatically bind one or more action creators to the dispatch function of your Redux store, which makes it easier to dispatch actions.

1.**Purpose of bindActionCreators**: The primary role of `bindActionCreators()` is to turn an object whose values are action-creating functions, into an object with the same keys, but with every action creator wrapped into a `dispatch` call. This simplifies the process of dispatching actions, especially in a React-Redux application.

2.**How it works**: Typically, to `dispatch` an action in Redux, you use the `dispatch` function and pass the result of an action creator to it.

## Usage

### Arguments

1. `actionCreators (Function or Object)`: An action creator, or an object whose values are action creators.
2. `dispatch (Function)`: A dispatch function available on the Store instance.

### Return

- (Function or Object): An object mimicking the original object, but with each function immediately dispatching the action returned by the corresponding action creator. If you passed a function as actionCreators, the return value will also be a single function.

## Example

- Assume we have 2 action creator function

  ```javascript
  const increment = () => ({ type: INCREMENT, payload: 1 });
  const add = (amount) => ({ type: ADD, payload: amount });
  ```

- What if we wanted to wrap those processes into one package

  In this code, `dispatchIncrement` and `dispatchAdd` are functions that, when called, dispatch (send) an action to the Redux store. The `increment` action represents an instruction to increase a count by one, and the add action represents an instruction to add a specific number to the count.

  - By traditional way

    ```javascript
    const dispatchInrement = () => store.dispatch(increment());
    const dispatchAdd = (number) => store.dispatch(add(number));

    dispatchIncrement();
    dispatchAdd(123);
    ```

  - Using `compose()` function

    ```javascript
    const dispatchIncrement = compose(store.dispatch, increment);
    const dispatchAdd = compose(store.dispatch, add);
    ```

    The compose function is a functional programming utility that allows you to combine functions. It creates a new function that, when called, dispatches an action created by either increment or add.

  - Using `compose()` with an array of function

    ```javascript
    const [dispatchIncrement, dispatchAdd] = [increment, add].map((fn) =>
      compose(store.dispatch, fn)
    );
    ```

    This is a more compact version of using compose. It maps over an array of action creators (increment and add), and for each one, it creates a new function that composes store.dispatch with the action creator.

  - Using `bindActionCreators()`

  ```javascript
  const actions = bindActionCreators(
    {
      increment,
      add,
    },
    store.dispatch
  );

  actions.increment();
  console.log(store.getState());
  ```

  `bindActionCreators()` is a utility provided by Redux to automatically bind many action creators to `store.dispatch()`. This simplifies the code by removing the need to manually call `store.dispatch()` with each action creator. After using `bindActionCreators()`, you can call `actions.increment()` directly to dispatch the increment action.
